So let's start building that modal component
and for that, I have a brand new project, just an HTML file with that basic HTML5 skeleton,
no script files, nothing. There
I will now add my modal.js file where I want to create that code for that modal web component.
Now throughout this module,
always feel free to pause the video and try something on your own,
if we're working on a certain feature where you feel like, hey I can do that on my own,
definitely pause and try it on your own,
otherwise just code along and you will see many of the things we covered in the last lectures and modules
and this module should therefore also help with really understanding all these pieces and see how
they come together.
So in modal.js, I will start by creating a new component class with the class keyword and I will name
it modal and I will extend the HTML element, so I'll not extend an existing HTML element like
a div or anything like that,
I'll start from scratch here.
Now before I add any content here, any logic, I will also register this with custom elements define, I'll
name it uc-modal,
that will be my tag and I point at this Modal class.
Now with that added, I'll go to the index.html file and there as before, add the script import
to the modal.js file and thereafter, we can added it here, uc-modal as our own
HTML tag in the body of this template.
And later we'll also add some logic
so that we have to click a button to show it and hide it.
But that will all come later,
for now let's start adding some content to this modal and I'll start with the constructor where we always
have to call super first and now in here,
I will set up this general template for this modal and for that as you learned,
we want to create a shadow DOM.
Now as you also learned, this is of course not a hard requirement,
we can create custom elements without the shadow DOM but the shadow DOM gives us many advantages and
therefore, I definitely want to use it here.
So I will call this attach shadow and set the mode to open as always and now we can use the shadow root
to start setting our innerHTML, so the template so to say, the HTML code of this custom component
that is hidden away from the light DOM.
Now I want to create a modal and this will actually consist of two major parts,
for one I will have a div with a CSS class of backdrop, could also be an ID of backdrop if you prefer
that
and this will be the part behind the modal which will gray out the rest of the page whilst the modal is
in the foreground. And the other part therefore is of course the modal itself and again here, I'm using a class
of modal,
actually let's use the ID because we can be that specific here
and selecting an ID is actually a bit faster than selecting a class,
so for my CSS perspective, this is a bit better.
And now let me also add style tags here so that we can style all the components or all the elements
we'll have in the modal. And I will start with some rough styling and with the rough layout and later,
we'll add more and more feature to that modal, like different slot areas and so on.
Something we haven't covered yet, we'll learn it in this module.
So let's start building that modal
and first of all here I'll select the backdrop and I'll set a style for that backdrop.
Now the style for this backdrop will be that it has a position of fixed from the top of the page and
the way this is positioned in the index.html file directly in the body,
this will refer to the overall document, to the overall page as the container.
So from the top, I want to have a distance of 0, from the left as well and then this backdrop should
cover the entire page.
So I'll give it a width of 100% and for the height,
this would not work unless we also set the height of our body and the HTML tag to 100%
but here we can use 100vh which stands for viewport height and also is about the entire height of
our window basically.
Now I'll give it a background of RGBA and then a transparent black color,
maybe 75% opacity, so 25% transparency here and with that, we should have a backdrop in
place. Now since we already import this and we use our tag here,
we should be able to reload this page and indeed, we now have a gray background and that is the modal
background.
It's not obvious here but we can confirm this if we simply inspect this in the developer tools,
it's this background, this div
here, that is responsible for that.
If I uncheck the background, it's gone.
So we see the modal background here, that's great
and if we had other content on this page and I will add something here,
please confirm your choice and then we have a button which maybe says show details and confirm whatever
you want, if I now reload, this is hidden behind the modal or behind the backdrop.
So that is working,
now just one tiny thing so that it's a little bit less ugly.
Let me again set some general styles, here
I'll set a box sizing of border box for all the elements and that includes my custom elements by the
way
and for the body, I'll set a margin of zero and I'll set a font family of sans-serif here because I simply prefer that,
now this looks a bit nicer.
I'll get rid of the margin actually,
let's give this a margin of 2rem instead so that we have a little bit of margin on the body,
yes.
Ok, so
this is the general styling,
the backdrop is in place now.
Now let's also add the modal style itself in the next lecture.